# Kickstarting with Excel

## A comparison of launch dates and funding goals of different theater kickstarter campaigns. 


### The purpose of this analysis is to find characteristics of kickstarters/campaigns that can predict whether or not they would fail or succeed, and the importance of funding goals and whether they either impede or assist in the result of a campaign. 

## The analysis consists of a grand total of 1393 theater kickstarters and their outcomes (successful/failed/cancelled) by month. The first analysis consists of the theater kickstarters by the month of launch, with the purpose seeking if there is a particular time of the year where a theatric kickstarter would most likely succeed, and when they are unlikely to do so. The second analysis consists of the same kickstarters and how funding goals predict whether it would be a success. The first analysis shows kickstarters succeeding more in the summertime and failing in the winter time, while the second analysis shows low goals having more of a success rate, with an inflection point with failure outcomes in the medium-range of goals and large goals displaying more failure. 

### The initial look of the theater outcomes based on launch date shows a massive peak of success in the summertime for kickstarts. As the weather cools, however, the amount of successful kickstarters begin to decrease. The failure line appears to stay consistent through the graph in comparison to the successful line. This can be explained with the grand total of kickstarters in each month - the winter months have the lowest grand total of kickstarters by month, whereas the summer months have the largest amount of kickstarters. The highest amount of kickstarters is in May with 166, along with the highest amount of successful kickstarts in the year, with 111. Therefore, one can conclude that a kickstarter could generate the most amount of enthusiasm in the summer, whereas kickstarters in the winter have more of a chance to fail. 

### The analysis based on outcomes and goal shows that low kickstarter goals have a greater rate of success, with this rate decreasing and inflecting at the 15000-19999 kickstarter amount as the failure rate overtakes success. Oddly, at the 30000 and 34999 amount (double the previous inflection point), the second inflection point reverses the outcomes. At the 45000-49999 mark, all kickstarters with this goal failed. There were a couple of successes with a goal amount of over 50000 (two out of sixteen). Therefore, one would have the best amount of success with a kickstarter with a goal of less than 20000. 

### Challenges with the data include the amount of datapoints for months / goals that did not match the amounts of other months / goals. For example, the winter months in the dataset held the lowest amount of kickstarters and their outcomes, whereas the summer held the most. The data could be providing a success bias to the summer months due to the sheer amount of kickstarters analyzed during that time. The same could be said for outcomes. The majority of kickstarter goals asked for a low amount and thus were more easily able to achieve success. As larger goals were asked, the failures began to increase. Closer analysis of the successful yet larger kickstarter goals could help the reader understand what makes a successful kickstarter.

